---
layout: post
title: "The Mission Statement"
subtitle: "Correct me if I'm wrong, but I think I'm writing about elos"
author: "Sam Calvert"
date: 2015-02-26 3:33:33
categories: rbfasho
---

Lando introduced me to the idea of interfaces two weeks ago. I'm not sure if the definition that I have derived from that conversation and "Landos interfaces article" matches up with the one that was intended or if the word "interfaces" is compatible with this definition. But the way I see an interface is the intermediary that redistributes the force applied to something into the most valuable areas. A nail is an excellent interface. It accepts the force delivered onto its wide top surface and concentrates it on the most valuable point. A funnel offers the same idea but I like the idea of force better because effort is force applied in our lives. And an mission statement defines human interfaces.

**draw a picture of interface**

<em>What is the role of a mission statement, and why is it so crucial?</em>
Notre Dame is currently deciding whether or not it should change the core curriculum. The central most point of contention is whether or not the university should keep the 2 theology and 2 philosophy courses required for all undergraduate students. I got into a conversation with a couple of my friends about where they stood. Differing views were presented and the discussion became fairly intense. Proponents of keeping the classes and getting rid of the classes offered reasons why we are better off one way and better off another. The discussion turned argumentative, as much to frequently important discussion do, as both sides had arguments that they felt were unrefuted by the other, and were more important. And that's the key. What arguments are more important. THIS is why the mission statement is so important. Because as equal parts of the Notre Dame community, proponents each person's opinion on either side is of equal value. Whatever student 1's opinion is carries the same weight as what student 2's opinion is because they were both asked to join the community of the University and bring who they are including such opinions. But the ultimate decision needs to live and die by the lense which the mission statement provides. If the school was set up to be an institution where educated students guide the direction of the school by way of majority vote, then whichever decision lied in the opinion of the majority should be implemented. This would starting look like a democracy, the interface, a constitution. 

The fact of the matter is, there were men who dedicated themselves building an academic institution. They decided why they wanted to do this in a way that would influence the world for what they felt was the better. They consolidated their opinions into a mission statement that could serve as a guide to the proceedings of the University. Their vision is something that as people who decided to attend this University decided to subscribe to.

<em>What are you fighting for?</em>
Every single day that you are alive, you are pushing an interface. You're mind, your heart, your mood, your effort, everything about who you are from one day to the next decide what that interface looks like on the other end. What buttons are being pushed, what goals are being met. Obviously the mission statement for your life is constantly changing. If it weren't you wouldnt be growing. But consistency is the way we make sure that the good pieces of the interface remain intact, and continue to push us towards our goals. Elos makes sure that you don't lose any benefical pieces of your interface by accident. But building virtue is the way we develop our mission statement, the way we refine the pressure poins of our interface. I believe the optimal functioning of my being is achieved striving to allign who I am today with who God made me to be through relationship with Him. Achieving this would be the picture of a perfect interface. One that took the full force of who I am and applied it to everything I truly delight in doing. 

By the way, I feel very blessed to be where I am...

"Notre Dame pursues its objectives through the formation of an authentic human community graced by the Spirit of Christ."